# Preparing to Use CoMapeo Mobile

1.  [Understanding CoMapeo's Core Concepts and Functions]

2.  [Gathering the Right Equipment for CoMapeo]

3.  [Organizing Key Materials for Projects]

4.  [Mapping with Collaborators]

5.  [Installing & Uninstalling CoMapeo]

6.  [Setting up a Device & Maintaining It]

7.  [Mapping On Your Own & Next Steps] (Leaving, Adding
    Collaborator, Adding Projects, Sharing Out)

# Gathering Observations

1.  [Creating a New Observation]

2.  [Creating a New Track]

3.  Adding Audio Recording to Observations \[COMING SOON\]

# Reviewing Observations

1.  [Managing the Observations List]

2.  [Reviewing an Observation] --- Details, GPS Info, and
    Photo Info

3.  [Sharing Outside Your Project]

# Managing Projects

1.  [Creating a New Project]

2.  [Adjusting Categories Set]

3.  [Inviting Collaborators]

4.  [Managing a Team]

5.  Managing Multiple Projects \[COMING SOON\]

# Managing Data & Privacy

1.  [Adjusting Data Sharing & Privacy]

<!-- -->

6.  [Working with an App Passcode]

# Exchanging Observations

1.  [Understanding How Exchange Works]

2.  [Using a Remote Archive]

# Sharing Observations Outside of CoMapeo Mobile

# Ending a Project

# Troubleshooting

1.  [I can't start CoMapeo]

2.  [I have problems with GPS in CoMapeo Mobile]

3.  [I have problems with the camera in CoMapeo Mobile]

4.  [I want to update app permissions in CoMapeo Mobile]

# Glossary

# Miscellaneous

Understanding CoMapeo's Core Concepts and Function

Understanding CoMapeo's Core Concepts and Functions

For \[Version Data\]

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# What is CoMapeo?

CoMapeo is a mapping and territory-monitoring tool created together with
Indigenous communities. It was designed to respond directly to their
priorities: documenting what is happening on their lands, telling their
stories, and protecting their rights.

Unlike many digital tools that are expensive, complex, or dependent on
the internet, CoMapeo is simple to learn, works offline, and keeps full
control of information in the hands of the community. This means it can
be used in remote areas, on affordable phones, and by people with
different levels of digital experience.

Because it was co-designed with Indigenous partners across multiple
continents, CoMapeo reflects their knowledge and way of working.
Communities use it to map cultural sites, monitor environmental threats,
record oral histories, and strengthen their stewardship of the land.

At its core, CoMapeo is more than a piece of software: it is a tool for
accessibility, autonomy, and collaboration --- enabling frontline
communities to gather and share information safely, in ways that serve
their own goals.

# What are CoMapeo's core concepts and functions?

-   Observations: Observations are the main way to collect information
    in CoMapeo. Besides the location, timestamp and category, they can
    also include photos, audios and details.

-   Tracks: Tracks let you record paths or boundaries as you move across
    the land. They are useful for documenting trails, patrol routes,
    rivers, or territory borders.

-   Projects: Projects organize your mapping work, either individually
    or with collaborators. They define the categories, team members, and
    settings for how data is collected and managed.

-   Exchange: Exchange is how devices share and synchronize project
    data. It allows collaborators to keep their observations up to date,
    even without internet access.

# Observations

[@(https://drive.google.com/file/d/14l9AjdANFSzhtCC94h0DHw2Xolt11_Yq/view?usp=drive_link)]

Observations are the heart of CoMapeo. They allow you to capture data
about what you see in the field, including text, photos, audios, and
location.

ðŸ’¡ Tip: You can also add audio recordings to Observations to provide
context and narratives

# Tracks

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

Tracks let you record paths or boundaries while moving through the
landscape. They are useful for mapping trails, rivers, borders, or
patrol routes.

# Projects

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

Projects are how you organize your mapping work. They can be used for
solo mapping or for collaboration with a team.

ðŸ’¡ **Tip**: Since CoMapeo v5, you can now have **multiple projects** on
the same device without losing data

# Exchange

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

Exchange is how CoMapeo devices share and synchronize data with each
other, ensuring everyone in a project has the same information.

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

-   Creating and Managing a Team

-   Data Export and Backup

-   Security Features

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

-   Observation not saving? â†’ Check your storage space and permissions.

-   Tracks not recording? â†’ Verify GPS is enabled and location
    permissions are set to "Precise."

-   Exchange not working? â†’ Make sure devices are on the same Wi-Fi
    network, or Remote Archive is configured.

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Gathering the Right Equipment for CoMapeo

Gathering the Right Equipment for CoMapeo

For \[Version Data\]

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# Why is gathering the right equipment for CoMapeo important?

CoMapeo Mobile is designed to work on a variety of Android devices., It
uses the basic hardware included in most smartphones today: a camera,
GPS, battery, and memory. However, if you plan to use CoMapeo on long
journeys, offline environments, and diverse weather conditions on the
land, then there are important aspects to look for in a phone that can
improve your experience with CoMapeo throughout your journey.

# Equipment Requirements

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

# Also see

-   [Setting up a Device & Maintaining It]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

-   Check back later.

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Organizing Key Materials for Projects

Start Organizing Projects with Category Sets

For \[Version Data\]

![](./images/media/image65.png)# Why is organizing key materials important?

CoMapeo comes with default options that can be used right away, without
any customization.

If you want CoMapeo to respond to the local needs and desires of your
project, community, or territory, it is key that you organize the
information that you need to customize the tool to meet your needs. One
key step in this process is the customization of **Categories**,or
pre-defined labels for organizing Observations within a Project.

# About Categories in CoMapeo

### **What is a category in CoMapeo?**

A category is a predetermined icon, label, and detail questions for any
data type being collected. For each observation made with CoMapeo,
participants select a category to classify it, and may answer questions
or respond to prompts to provide more detail about what is being
documented.

**What are Category Sets in CoMapeo?**

Previously known as *Config* in Mapeo, Category Sets are files that
contain and define the distinct Categories for a Project. Creating
config used to require coding skills that limited the possibility for
people to customize their own categories. We have now made it more
accessible through a spreadsheet template that we explain in this
section.

# CoMapeo\'s Default Category Set

When you first install CoMapeo, it comes with a default category set
that includes general icons and questions for territory mapping and
monitoring. Depending on your needs and capacity, you may find that the
Default Category Set that comes with CoMapeo does the job well enough,
or you might want to set up a custom Category Set with your own icons
and questions tailored to your specific needs.

# Reviewing the Default Category Set within CoMapeo Mobile

To review CoMapeo's Default Category Set within the app itself, use the
following steps.

# Creating Custom Category Sets

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

**Reasons for customizing CoMapeo Category Sets**

-   Custom Categories are a powerful tool for customization in CoMapeo,
    allowing users to define specific icons, and questionnaires for
    their projects.

-   Text can be written in any language that can be typed, ensuring that
    key parts of the data collection interface can appear in the native
    language of the groups using it.

**Reflect and organize information you will need**

Initial planning and consultation with project participants is essential
to designing effective ways of organizing your data. To start the
customization process, project participants should reflect on the
project goals, what kind of data will be needed, and what properties
might be required for data outputs.

You will need to think through what to include for each of the **key
customizable areas of CoMapeo.**

-   **(https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/customization-options/custom-configurations/creating-custom-configurations/planning-configuration-and-data-structure/categories).**
    When collecting or creating data with CoMapeo, users assign a
    top-level category to each observation or element on the map.

-   **(https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/customization-options/custom-configurations/creating-custom-configurations/planning-configuration-and-data-structure/icons).**
    Each Category you include must have an icon or a small graphic to
    display to users when selecting a category.

-   [**[Details
    fields.]**](https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/customization-options/custom-configurations/creating-custom-configurations/planning-configuration-and-data-structure/details-fields)
    For each Category in your Category Set, you can include one or more
    structured data fields (like a mini form or questionnaire) that
    users can optionally fill out when creating a new observation or map
    element with that category.

Once you have this information, use the **CoMapeo Category Generator
Spreadsheet** to create your categories. This tool will allow you to
create and edit Categories, icons, details fields and language, and
export all this information into a **.comapeocat** file, which you will
import to your phone (and share among participants if you are on the
same project) to start documenting and exchanging information.

# See Also

-   [Creating a New Observation]

# (https://www.earthdefenderstoolkit.com/new-tool-mapeo-icons-generator/) blogpost by Luandro Vieira.

-   (https://www.earthdefenderstoolkit.com/welcome-to-the-comapeo-categories-library/)
    blogpost by MarÃ­a Alvarez

# Troubleshooting

-   ...

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Mapping With Collaborators

Mapping with Collaborators

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image19.png)# What is possible when mapping as a team?

Mapping with others makes the work more powerful. When a group collects
information together, you can cover more ground, include different
perspectives, and build a shared record of what is happening on your
land. It also helps distribute responsibility so no one person carries
the entire workload.

# Organizing Your Team

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

Start by deciding who will be part of your team and what roles each
person will play.

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

If you run into problems while mapping as a team, check these resources:

-   \[Inviting Collaborators Guide\]

-   \[Managing a Team\]

-   \[Adjusting Data Sharing & Privacy\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Installing & Uninstalling CoMapeo

Installing & Uninstalling CoMapeo

For V3.1

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# Introduction

## **This chapter will walk you through:**

-   How to find, download and install CoMapeo on your smartphone

-   Opening the app for the first time and getting ready to use it,
    including permissions you may have to give the app for full
    functionality

-   How to uninstall CoMapeo if necessary, including what to be aware of
    when uninstalling and deleting the app from your smartphone, and
    what this means for your data and projects

## **Important information**

-   CoMapeo is built for Android smartphones, this means that it will
    only work on those with an Android operating system. It will not
    work with iPhones.

-   You might want to read *Gathering the Right Equipment* and *Setting
    Up a Device* before starting these steps, to make sure that you are
    well informed and ready to go.

  ðŸ”— Go to **Gathering the right equipment**

  ðŸ”— Go to **Setting up a Device**

# Installing CoMapeo

]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QWKYMfgGk2Qh8jGez_ZrwWhck8n_gn26/view?usp=drive_link)

# Uninstalling CoMapeo

## **Reasons for Uninstalling CoMapeo**

You might want to uninstall CoMapeo for a number of reasons, for
example:

-   You have decided that the tool isn't the right one for you

-   You are no longer part of certain projects

-   You want to give your phone away to someone else

-   You think your device and the data are not secure

However, there are irreversible consequences to uninstalling CoMapeo, so
make sure you are sure about your reasons, and look at the checklist
below before completing the uninstallation.

## **Before Uninstalling CoMapeo**

When you uninstall CoMapeo all the data within the app will be deleted
and will not be recoverable. You will also lose access to any projects
you are part of, even if you are a coordinator. Therefore please follow
these steps before uninstalling CoMapeo.

-   If you are not part of any team projects, but are only using CoMapeo
    on your own, make sure you export any data from within all solo
    projects you have, or share any individual observation data that you
    consider important via Whatsapp / email etc.

  ðŸ”— Go to **EXPORT DATA**

-   If you are part of one or more projects, make sure that you are up
    to date with your data exchange, so that any data you have collected
    can be part of the team data.

  ðŸ”— Go to **UNDERSTANDING HOW EXCHANGE WORKS**

-   If you are a coordinator on a project, make sure that you set up at
    least one other device as a coordinator device for the project. If
    you fail to do this then the project will only have participants,
    and certain actions will not be possible.

  ðŸ”— Go to **Managing a Team**

## **Uninstalling CoMapeo**

](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1heo-81t9Z9aQAp5vP3sYATVcwp6kAHzk/view?usp=drive_link)

# Troubleshooting

## **Deleting your app data**

You might want to delete your app data without deleting CoMapeo off your
phone. This might be useful if you have come across bugs or want to
start fresh with CoMapeo. Clearing data deletes all the contents of the
app, and resets it back to its default state, like when it was first
installed. If you have limited or no internet access this might be
useful, as you can start from scratch by deleting app data, without
having to re-download CoMapeo from the playstore.

## **Instructions**

Steps might vary slightly depending on Android version, but will be
something like:

1.  Go to **Settings** and then **Apps & notifications** (or just
    **Apps**)

2.  Tap **CoMapeo**

3.  Tap **Storage** or **Storage & cache** and then **Clear data** (make
    sure you clear data and not just cache)

4.  **Confirm** that you want to clear the data

On Android 11 and higher, "Clear data" was renamed to "clear storage".

Some older Android versions may also have a Clear data button directly
on the app info screen.

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Setting up a Device & Maintaining It

Setting up a Device & Maintaining It

For Version 3.1

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# Setting up your phone to use CoMapeo

# [\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

# Here you will learn what to do on your phone (outside of CoMapeo) to get the best performance from it as you start to use it.

#

#

# Related Content: Why is it important to maintain my device?

Looking after your Android phone and keeping it well maintained helps it
stay fast, secure, and free of bugs. Consider carrying out the steps
below to optimize your phone for using CoMapeo.

# Related Content: Good maintenance procedures for your phones

## **1. Secure your phone**

## **2. Keep your operating system updated**

## **3. Practice a regular maintenance routine**

## **4. Protect your phone against physical damage**

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Mapping On Your Own & Next Steps

Mapping On Your Own & Next Steps

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image31.png)# What are the benefits of mapping on your own?

\[Short description\]

# Getting Started

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Creating a New Observation

Creating a New Observation

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image54.png)# What is an Observation?

\[Short description\]

# Create a New Observation

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# Adding Details

\[Short description of the feature\]

# Adding Photos

\[Short description of the feature\]

# Adding Audio

\[Short description of the feature\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Creating a New Track

Creating a New Track

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image11.png)# What is a Track?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Managing the Observations List

Managing the Observations List

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image72.png)# What is the Observations List?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Reviewing an Observation

Reviewing an Observation

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image37.png)# Why review an Observation?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Sharing Outside Your Project

Sharing Outside Your Project

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image44.png)# Why would you share observations outside your project?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Creating a New Project

Creating a New Project

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image73.png)# What is a Project?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Adjusting Categories Set

Adjusting Categories Set

For \[Version Data\]

#

# What is a Categories Set?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Inviting Collaborators

Inviting Collaborators

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image19.png)# Why invite collaborators to your projects?

When mapping on your own, there are three ways to start collaborating
with others using CoMapeo.

-   Inviting a Collaborator to My Solo Project

-   Starting a New Project

-   Joining an Existing Project

# Inviting a Collaborator to My Solo Project

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

When mapping on your own, your first project is simply My Solo Project
to which you can gather a limitless amount of observations. If you'd
like to share observations in My Solo Project using CoMapeo's Exchange
feature, then you will first need to give the project a name. Once the
project has been successfully renamed, then you are ready to invite
devices to this renamed project and use the Exchange feature.

# Starting a New Project

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

In the case where you want to share any observations from My Solo
Project, but would rather collaborate with another device on a separate
project, then Start a New Project.

# Joining an Existing Project

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

-   **NEED TO ADD INSIGHTS FROM WIFI LEARNINGS HERE**. Like most apps
    that attempt to onboard large groups of people, CoMapeo struggles to
    onboard many devices at the same time. Here's how to address that:
    \[...instructions to come...\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Managing a Team

Managing a Team

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image17.png)# What is a Team?

On CoMapeo, a team is the group of people contributing to the same
Project.

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Understanding How Exchange Works

Understanding How Exchange Works

For \[Version Data\]

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# What is Exchange on CoMapeo?

\[Short description\]

# Exchanging Observations

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# Adjusting Exchange Settings

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Using a Remote Archive

Using a Remote Archive

For \[Version Data\]

![](./images/media/image9.png)# What is a Remote Archive?

A **Remote Archive** is a dedicated server that allows projects to
automatically back up their observations whenever connected to the
internet.

-   Any device can be considered a server as long as it is in perpetual
    state of being available to exchange observations.

-   Internet connectivity is required to both add a Remote Archive and
    to exchange with it.

-   Only Coordinators can enable a Remote Archive, and once enabled
    Participants can see it as part of the participants list.

-   When enabled, all new collaborators that opt-in to exchange their
    observations will automatically be doing so with the Remote Archive.

# Step 1: Generate a Remote Archive URL

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

Familiarity and comfort with coding will help with generating a Remote
Archive URL.

# Step 2: Add a Remote Archive

![](./images/media/image83.gif)Go to the project where you\'ll use a **Remote Archive**.

# Related Content

## Exchanging with a Remote Archive

If enabled and connected to the internet, Remote Archive will
automatically backup every time a device starts an Exchange.

Attention: On CoMapeo Mobile 1.2.0 it is not possible to not exchange
with the Remote Archive but this is a feature that may come in the
future.

  ðŸ”— Go to **Exchanging Observations**

## Removing a Remote Archive

â€‹â€‹It is not currently possible to remove a Remote Archive from a Project
once added. We anticipate having the ability to remove a Remote Archive
available in late 2025.

-   When it becomes available, only Coordinators will be able to add and
    remove a Remote Archive from their projects

-   In this version and in the future, participants cannot remove the
    Remote Archive from the project.

## Troubleshooting

-   

## Coming Soon

In the coming year, improvements to Remote Archives will include:

-   Allowing Coordinators to remove a Remote Archive

-   Making it easier process to add a Remote Archive

# Previous Versions Archive

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Working with an App Passcode

Working with an App Passcode

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image38.png)# What is an App Passcode?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

Adjusting Data Sharing & Privacy

Adjusting Data Sharing & Privacy

For \[Version Data\]

# ![](./images/media/image35.png)# What is Data Sharing?

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

I can\'t start CoMapeo

I can't start CoMapeo[\
]For \[Version Data\]

# **Make sure you have CoMapeo installed on your phone or computer.**

Follow the instructions for [Installing CoMapeo].

# **Clear application cache data (CoMapeo Mobile only)**

On CoMapeo Mobile, you can clear the application cache using the Android
system settings. Note that clearing the application "cache" is very
different from clearing the application "storage". Applications
typically use the cache to store non-permanent data to improve app
experience and it is generally safe to remove that data.

*TODO: instructions for how to get to the cache data settings*

Once the cache data is cleared. Restart the application.

# **Restart the device and try opening the application again**

*TODO: blurb about why this sometimes works?*

# **Make sure your device has enough free space available**

*TODO: blurb about why this is necessary*

If none of the previously listed options work, there are more drastic
measures that can be taken to potentially solve the issue:

# **Uninstall and reinstall the application**

It is important to note that uninstalling CoMapeo means **losing all the
data you have collected so far**. You can only recover this data if you
have previously exchanged with another device.

-   [Learn how Exchange works]

# **Contact Awana Digital support**

*TODO: links to appropriate communication channels*

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

I have problems with GPS in CoMapeo Mobile

I have problems with GPS in CoMapeo Mobile[\
]For \[Version Data\]

# **GPS is not activated in the application**

*TODO: Adapt
(https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/troubleshooting/i-have-problems-with-the-gps-in-mapeo/gps-is-not-activated-in-mapeo)*

# **My GPS signal is very weak**

*TODO: Adapt
(https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/troubleshooting/i-have-problems-with-the-gps-in-mapeo/my-gps-signal-is-very-weak)*

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

I have problems with the camera in CoMapeo Mobile

I have problems with the camera in CoMapeo Mobile[\
]For \[Version Data\]

# **I get a black screen when using the camera**

Typically, this is because you have not given CoMapeo permission to use
the phone\'s camera, or the permissions have expired due to not using
CoMapeo for a long period of time. To change this, you have to follow
these steps: [I want to update app permissions in CoMapeo
Mobile]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

I want to update app permissions in CoMapeo Mobile

I want to update app permissions in CoMapeo Mobile[\
]For \[Version Data\]

*TODO: Adapt
(https://docs.mapeo.app/complete-reference-guide/troubleshooting/updating-mapeo-mobile-permissions)*

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]

PS Page Template

\[Verb-led Page title\]

For \[Version Data\]

[\[HERO IMAGE: ...\]]

# \[Context\]

\[Short description\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Step #: Instructions\]

[\[VIDEO WALKTHROUGH\]]

\[One sentence starter.\]

# \[Related Content\]

\[Concise paragraphs\]

# Troubleshooting

\[Links to resources for address known issues.\]

# Coming Soon

\[Known improvements and tentative timelines\]

# Previous Versions

-   \[Version Data\]

-   \[Version Data\]
